# Smart-Door-with-IoT-and-Machine-Learning

## Description

The purpose of this project is to combine aspects of machine learning and Internet of Things (IoT) principles to design a fully functional smart door system. Several subsystems have been implemented in our smart door system to provide a holistic user experience. IoT describes the communication between devices that enables transfer and usage of data within a system. Doors are the main access point for any household; hence it is a crucial aspect to be considered in terms of home security. IoT is used because it enables the user to remotely monitor the current conditions of their household. The user is able to receive alerts when suspicious activity is detected and timely updates regarding the current condition of their household. For this project, the Raspberry Pi is used as the main microprocessor. The AdaBoost Decision Tree supervised machine learning model is used to train the system to classify movement based on data collected from three ultrasonic sensors. Temperature and humidity sensor are also used to gather data about the surrounding environment. Furthermore, the data collected by the ultrasonic sensors, data analyzed by the machine learning model and username and password of the users will also be encrypted before storing it into the system. This will
then increase the security level of the system by preventing any suspicious people that try to manipulate the data. Besides, the data collected will also be further analyzed by the system and used as a feedback
to the user through telegram.
